'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_clone 3 "2015 JUL 3" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_clone\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfsname\fR, \fBconst char *\fR \fIorigin\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIprops\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_clone \- Creates a clone from a snapshot

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
\fBlibzfs_clone\fR()
function creates a ZFS dataset or volume named
.I fsname
from the snapshot
.fs origin .
Properties may optionally be set using 
.I props .

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.
.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_clone()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEDQUOT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Creation of the clone will require storage space in excess of the filesystem
quota.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.sp
A dataset named \fIfsname\fR already exists.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR is not syntactically correct. This includes situations where bookmarks, snapshots or holds are specified.
.sp
The snapshot name \fIorigin\fR is not syntactically correct. This includes the case of attempting to clone a non-snapshot.
.sp
The nvlist_t \fIprops\fR could not be understood by the kernel as being NULL or a nvlist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.sp
The snapshot name \fIorigin\fR nvlist exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loadng unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
The dataset \fIfsname\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Failed to allocate memory necessary to send \fIprops\fR to the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEOVERFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specified volume size through \fIprops\fR exceeds system supported device size.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEXDEV\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Attempted to clone across pools.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
