'\" t
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\"
.\" Copyright 2015 ClusterHQ Inc. All rights reserved.
.\"
.TH lzc_create 3 "2015 JUL 7" "OpenZFS" "OpenZFS Programmer's Manual"

.SH PROLOG
This manual page is part of the OpenZFS Programmer's Manual.

.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <libzfs_core.h>

\fBint\fR \fBlzc_create\fR(\fBconst char *\fR\fIfsname\fR, \fBdmu_objset_type_t\fR \fItype\fR, \fBnvlist_t *\fR\fIprops\fR);

.SH NAME
lzc_create \- Create a ZFS dataset or volume

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The
\fBlibzfs_create\fR()
function creates a dataset or zvol according to \fItype\fR. Optional properties
are passed through \fIprops\fR.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.sp
.LP
Upon successful completion, 0 is returned. Otherwise, an error is returned.

.SH ERRORS
.sp
.LP
The \fBlzc_inherit()\fR function will fail if:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEEXIST\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The pool was uninitialized and a pool with the same GUID already existed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEINVAL\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR is invalid.
.sp
The dataset type \fItype\fR is invalid.
.sp
The nvlist \fIprops\fR is invalid.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The dataset name \fIfsname\fR exceeds 256 characters.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOENT\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Pool does not exist.
.sp
Loading unitialized pool from cachefile failed because the pool was exported or destroyed.
.sp
Internal error where uninitialized pool lacks a GUID in its config that was read from the cachefile.
.sp
The dataset \fIfsname\fR does not exist.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOMEM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Failed to allocate memory necessary to send \fIprops\fR to the kernel.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBENOTSUP\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
The requested ZPL version is not supported.
.sp
A feature has been requested (e.g. normalization) that hte requested ZPL version doe sont support.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEOVERFLOW\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Specified volume size exceeds system supported device size.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
\fB\fBEPERM\fR\fR
.ad
.RS 13n
Permission denied by zone security policy.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.sp
.LP
\fBlibzfs_core.h\fR(3), \fBzfs\fR(8)
